docs: add how-to for extending registration form with dynamic fields (#1238)
openedx/frontend-app-authn: docs/how_tos/adding_custom_fields_to_the_registration.rst

======================================================
Adding Custom Fields to the Registration Page in Authn
======================================================

Introduction
------------

> This guide explains how to add custom fields to the registration page of your Open edX instance. To integrate custom fields with the new Authn MFE, additional configuration steps are required. Custom fields can be either required—added directly to the registration page—or optional, and will be added to a secondary registration page that users can skip.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide explains how to add custom fields to the registration page of your Open edX instance. To integrate custom fields with the new Authn MFE, additional configuration steps are required. Custom fields can be either required—added directly to the registration page—or optional, and will be added to the progressive profiling page (welcome page) that users can skip.
```

Thats not a registration page technically.

In order to add fields that already exist in the user model, it is enough to redefine several constants. How to do this will be described in instructions **A**. If you need to add fields that are not in the user model by default, then you need to use instruction **B**.

**A. Add fields that are already exists as column in user profile model**
-----------------
You need to redefine several constants in the settings. Several methods can be used for this:

#. **Redefine constants using Django admin and `Site configurations` API. (recommended):**
    - Go to `Site configurations` in admin: {{LMS}}/admin/site_configuration/siteconfiguration/
    - Add new settings to OrderedDict (create new `Site configurations` if it wasn't before):
    .. code-block:: json
    {
        "ENABLE_DYNAMIC_REGISTRATION_FIELDS": "true",
        "MFE_CONFIG": {
            "ENABLE_DYNAMIC_REGISTRATION_FIELDS": "true"
        },
        "REGISTRATION_EXTRA_FIELDS": {
            "country": "required",
            "gender": "required"
        }

>     }

Reviewer: This wasn't so much readable in the preview. Could you please fix it?

    
    - All possible fields can be find in `EXTRA_FIELDS <https://github.com/openedx/edx-platform/blob/a9355852edede9662762847e0d168663083fc816/openedx/core/djangoapps/user_authn/api/helper.py#L20-L39>`_.
    - REST API gets cached, if you are in hurry though you can do this command: `tutor local exec redis redis-cli flushall`.
    - Or you can wait a few minutes until the cache is invalidated.

>     - After this, the new fields should appear on the Auth page.

Reviewer: NIT:
Can we also mention that the required fields will appear on the registration form and optional fields will appear on progressive profiling form?

    
#. **Also it is possible to redefine settings above with using the Tutor plugin:**
    - There is tutorial `how Tutor plugin can be created <https://docs.tutor.edly.io/tutorials/plugin.html#creating-a-tutor-plugin>`_.
    - Settings above should be overriden in the Tutor plugin.
    
#. **For the local development or testing settings can be overriden in configuration files:**
    - For example, constants can be added here: `env/apps/openedx/settings/lms/development.py`:
    .. code-block:: python
    ENABLE_DYNAMIC_REGISTRATION_FIELDS = "true"
    
    MFE_CONFIG["ENABLE_DYNAMIC_REGISTRATION_FIELDS"] = "true"
    
    REGISTRATION_EXTRA_FIELDS["country"] = "required"
    

>     REGISTRATION_EXTRA_FIELDS["gender"] = "required"

Reviewer: Could you please fix its preview?

    
`In total, you must redefine 3 constants using the method that is most preferable for you:` **ENABLE_DYNAMIC_REGISTRATION_FIELD = True, MFE_CONFIG["ENABLE_DYNAMIC_REGISTRATION_FIELDS"] = True, REGISTRATION_EXTRA_FIELDS["field_name"] = "required/optionl/hidden"**.

>     

Reviewer: please write these CONSTS in a code block for better preview.

#. **Install your custom form app and configure it in LMS**

   Follow the steps outlined in the official Open edX documentation to configure custom registration fields for your instance:
   `Customize the Registration Page <https://edx.readthedocs.io/projects/edx-installing-configuring-and-running/en/latest/configuration/customize_registration_page.html>`_.

#. **Enable Dynamic Registration Fields Setting in Open edX**

   Enable the `ENABLE_DYNAMIC_REGISTRATION_FIELDS` setting in the settings file. This setting should be added in the plugin where the extension form is placed.

   .. note:: See the context view for the Logistration page: `user_authn API Context View <https://github.com/openedx/edx-platform/blob/master/openedx/core/djangoapps/user_authn/api/views.py#L61>`_.

#. **Add Fields to the Extended Profile Fields List**

   Add your `custom field <https://edx.readthedocs.io/projects/edx-installing-configuring-and-running/en/latest/configuration/retrieve_extended_profile_metadata.html>`_ to the `extended_profile_fields` list to ensure it is checked correctly during registration.

>    .. warning:: If this step is missed, fields from the extension form will not be added. For more information, please see the condition in: `helper.py <https://github.com/openedx/edx-platform/blob/master/openedx/core/djangoapps/user_authn/api/helper.py#L97>`_.

Reviewer: NIT:
```suggestion
   .. warning:: If this step is missed, fields from the extension form will not be saved. For more information, please see the condition in: `helper.py <https://github.com/openedx/edx-platform/blob/master/openedx/core/djangoapps/user_authn/api/helper.py#L97>`_.
```

    - Required fields will appear on the registration form and optional fields will appear on progressive profiling form.

#. **Also it is possible to redefine settings above with using the Tutor plugin:**
    - There is tutorial `how Tutor plugin can be created <https://docs.tutor.edly.io/tutorials/plugin.html#creating-a-tutor-plugin>`_.
    - Settings above should be overriden in the Tutor plugin.

#. **For the local development or testing settings can be overriden in configuration files:**
    - For example, constants can be added here: `env/apps/openedx/settings/lms/development.py`:

    .. code-block:: python

        ENABLE_DYNAMIC_REGISTRATION_FIELDS = "true"

        MFE_CONFIG["ENABLE_DYNAMIC_REGISTRATION_FIELDS"] = "true"

        REGISTRATION_EXTRA_FIELDS["country"] = "required"

        REGISTRATION_EXTRA_FIELDS["gender"] = "required"

`In total, you must redefine 3 constants using the method that is most preferable for you:`

    .. code-block:: python

        ENABLE_DYNAMIC_REGISTRATION_FIELD = True,

        MFE_CONFIG["ENABLE_DYNAMIC_REGISTRATION_FIELDS"] = True,

        REGISTRATION_EXTRA_FIELDS["field_name"] = "required/optionl/hidden"

> **B. Add fields that do not exist in the user profile model**

Reviewer 2: Hello @GlugovGrGlib 

I was working on an extended registration form for an openedx instance and face some issues to make it work along with the authn MFE. While doing some research on the possible workarounds I came across with this PR.

Just want to know if you have had the opportunity to test the implementation of an extended registration form along with this MFE? Because I found a conflict between the django model/form definitions and the MFE structure and the way the MFE handles the fields definition. 

The purpose of this whole comment is to double check if the steps documented in this B section were already proven since I've follow the exact same steps and haven't make it work, so it would be cool if we confirm that the Authn MFE supports the extended forms or if it's a future work needed to be doing in another PR.
